+++
date = 2017-05-21T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.

title = "Assessment of the performance of advanced classification models applied for concentration of trace elements in healthy
and cancerous prostate tissue (Poster)"
time_start = 2017-05-22T19:00:00
time_end = 2017-05-22T22:00:00
abstract = "Gleason grade is the most popular system used to classify different stages of prostate cancer. 
However, this method is highly dependent on experience of the histopathologists as the assessment is based only
on microscopic appearance of analysed tissue sections. Complimentary system is needed that integrates tissue architecture
and its biochemistry. SRIXE (Synchrotron Radiation Induced X-ray Emission) is powerful, yet not destructive technique used 
to determine the elemental make-up of a sample. As very often valuable information is hidden in a huge number of variables,
that is why dedicated multivariate statistical method has to be applied for straightforward analysis. Comprehensive comparison
of classification models based on elemental concentrations in prostate tissue is presented in this poster."
abstract_short = ""
event = "9th International Workshop on Infrared Microscopy and Spectroscopy with Accelerator-Based Sources"
event_url = "http://www.wirms2017.com/"
location = "Geovita, Zakopane, Poland"

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
projects = ["CNT"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "posters/20170522-Zakopane.pdf"
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++

Modern technique combining infra-red spectroscopy and atomic force microscopy (AFM) allows the chemical mapping with the spatial resolution down to 30 nm. However, due to specific detection of the infrared signal special attention must be paid to data-processing stage. In this contribution evaluation of the nanoscale chemical mapping results  of carbon nanotube composite materials will be presented. Nanostructural composites reinforced with carbon nanotube assemblies, such as CNT fibres or mats are promising materials for the numerous applications from avionics to high-tech industry [^1]. Ability to gain insight into the chemical composition of such composite materials may provide a way for their further improvement.

[^1]:  Y. L. Li, I. A. Kinloch, and A. H. Windle. Direct spinning of carbon nanotube ﬁbers from chemical vapor deposition synthesis. *Science*, **304** (5668): 276–278, 2004.
